# Initializing package.json file

## Run

- Run

```bash
 npm init
This utility will walk you through creating a package.json file.
It only covers the most common items, and tries to guess sensible defaults.

See `npm help init` for definitive documentation on these fields
and exactly what they do.

Use `npm install <pkg>` afterwards to install a package and
save it as a dependency in the package.json file.

Press ^C at any time to quit.
package name: (task-045-initializing-package.json-file) 
version: (1.0.0) 
description: 
entry point: (index.js) 
test command: 
git repository: 
keywords: 
author: 
license: (ISC) 
About to write to /Users/admin/Ankit/workspace/devops-essentials-prv/languages/nodejs/task-045-initializing-package.json-file/package.json:

{
  "name": "task-045-initializing-package.json-file",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}


Is this OK? (yes) yes
```

- Check package.json file

```javascript
{
  "name": "task-045-initializing-package.json-file",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}
```

## Explanation

The `package.json` file is a core component of Node.js applications. It holds various metadata relevant to the project and is used to give information to npm that allows it to identify the project and handle the project's dependencies.

Here's what each key-value pair in the `package.json` file means:

- `"name": "task-045-initializing-package.json-file"`: This is the name of your application. The name is used by npm for various things, including the URL that will point to your project's page on the npm website.

- `"version": "1.0.0"`: This is the current version of your application. The version should follow semantic versioning rules, which state that each version is represented as three numbers separated by dots, with the first number representing the major version, the second number representing the minor version, and the third number representing the patch version.

- `"description": ""`: This is where you can put a short description of your application. This is not required, but it is a good idea to include it to help others understand what your application does.

- `"main": "index.js"`: This is the entry point to your application. When someone runs your application, this is the first file that will be executed. By default, this is `index.js`.

- `"scripts": {...}`: This object can contain various scripts that you want to be able to run directly from the command line using npm. In this example, there is only a `"test"` script, which will print an error message and exit with a failure status because no test has been specified.

- `"author": ""`: This is where you can put your name or the name of your organization. This information can be displayed on the npm website.

- `"license": "ISC"`: This indicates the license your application is under. It's important to choose a license for your open-source projects, as it dictates how others may use your code. The "ISC" license is a simple permissive license that's functionally equivalent to the BSD 2-Clause and MIT licenses, with some terms that have been removed.

A `package.json` file is typically generated by running `npm init` in your command line and answering the questions, but it can also be created and modified manually.
